Assignment 1

With the help of Internet these days we can use cloud storage service, which facilitates us to store data securely. We can access our data and documents anytime and anywhere. Here are two very useful tools that are used for similar purposes.
Group 1: Google Drive
Google Drive is a free online cloud service that can be used to store files, documents, presentations, etc. Being a cloud service, Google Drive can be accessed from any desktop or laptop, all you need is just a browser to login into your Google account. These days, even an account for Google Drive is free of cost and can be accessed on any smart phone. Another good feature of Google Drive is that it can store any file format. With Google Drive you get 15 GB of storage initially but you can extend it for more storage space. It also has a feature to save the file in offline mode (applicable only to chrome).
For an individual, it is very helpful application that can be used for storing all kind of files and documents online, and is only just a touch away. The desktop and mobile applications are user friendly. Google Drive has its own document editor which supports creating normal text documents and presentations. The editor has its own features to edit, modify and add effects to the required documents. Presentations and documents are as easy to create on Google Drive as they are on Microsoft Office. The editor supports almost all kinds of Microsoft Office documents, which can be viewed and modified easily on drive.
If you are working in a group, Google Drive gives you a very nice feature of working together on the same document. Whether it is a normal document or a presentation, all group members can work together on the same document and can get it done in much less time with more efficiency than ever. You can also share the documents online with a number of people and can give them different read and write access accordingly. Permissions are decided by the owner of the document. Even new members can be added to access the shared folder anytime you want. Flexibility in permissions to read or write the documents provides the additional benefit of maintaining the consistency of the documents.
Google drive supports multiple file formats; you can save images, videos, HTML files, codes written in various languages and many similar documents without any conversion or modification of the file format. It serves a very useful application for programmers, as they don’t need to convert the documents before uploading or after downloading. The features like Google Apps script and Drive Realtime API helps programmers to write a code inside the document.
For non-programming courses, it may be helpful in sharing important documents, presentations, drawings, and spreadsheets. Using Google Drive, one can also share a document on social networking sites.
 
Group II: GitHub
GitHub is a version control tool that can be used by programmers to store their source codes based on the chronological order they were created. All you have to do is just upload the source codes periodically. It is a web based tool with a simple graphical interface making it easy to access and maintain the source codes. The codes can be accessed from anywhere using your GitHub account which is free to create and use. It also provides access control and several collaboration features such as wikis. The functionality to create repositories for various projects helps you maintain the overall source code of the project in chronological order and help maintain the versions accordingly. This helps the programmers a lot, as they can always switch to the last working version of their project if they mess up something while implementing current features.
Just as Google Drive, GitHub also provides ability to work on the same document at the same time. Individuals can copy a project from one user's account to another. This allows you to modify the project that you don't have write access under in your account, and if you want to share anything with the original owner here is feature called "pull request." It will send a request to the original owner. 
In a group, GitHub can be used depending upon their use. GitHub provides collaborative review and a distributed version control system. It provides functionality of track changes, for example, in a group if one has made changes, so it will maintain all the files that were stored earlier as well as changed files. This will help each person storing their own version, along with the overall project on which other group members are working along with him.
GitHub is mostly used by Programmers but can also be used by people who have a little knowledge of programming or have no programming experience. It can be used for word processing, spreadsheets, presentations and more things, which are of used by most number of people today. 
